# `cache_page` Decorator

The `cache_page` decorator is a powerful tool provided by Django's caching framework that allows to easily cache the entire output of a specific view (a function or class method) in the web application. This significantly improves performance by reducing the need to re-execute complex view logic for every request.

## Purpose

The primary purpose of `cache_page` is to:

1.  **Cache View Responses:** Store the complete HTTP response generated by a view in a cache backend.
2.  **Serve Cached Content:** For subsequent requests to the same URL within a specified time, serve the stored (cached) response directly, bypassing the view execution.
3.  **Improve Performance & Reduce Load:** Drastically speed up page load times and decrease the computational load on server and database.

## Usage

To use `cache_page`, simply import it from `django.views.decorators.cache` and apply it as a decorator to view function or method.

### Syntax

```
from django.views.decorators.cache import cache_page

@cache_page(timeout_in_seconds)
def my_view(request):
    # Your view logic here
    return HttpResponse("This content is cached!")
```
##### Parameters
* timeout_in_seconds (required): An integer representing the number of seconds for which the view's output should be cached. After this duration, the cached entry will expire, and the view will be re-executed on the next request.

## How It Works
* When the view is first called, the response is stored in Redis.
* Next time, the same URL will be served from the cache, bypassing database and logic.

## URL-Specific Caching
Each URL is cached separately.
For dynamic views (like /blog/1/, /blog/2/), each will have its own cached version.

## Where to Use
You can use cache_page:

* On individual views (function-based views)
* On class-based views using method_decorator

#### CBV Example:
```
from django.utils.decorators import method_decorator
from django.views import View
from django.http import HttpResponse

@method_decorator(cache_page(60 * 10), name='dispatch')
class MyView(View):
    def get(self, request):
        return HttpResponse("CBV with cache")
```

## To Clear Cache (Manual)
for clearing cache manually, use below command in Django shell.
```
from django.core.cache import cache
cache.clear()
```